Okay now with forms experts we're going to get rid of our form here and start looking at tables in HCM
l tables are really useful ways of setting out data or any kind of information to the user in a sort
of Excel spreadsheet like manner.
Let's take a look and see how we do it.
As you might be able to guess we use the table tag to start off our table and then within the table
we have a table row.
So Tiang.
And then within the table row we have individual table cells.
And for those we use t d which is short for table data.
So for example I wanted to put my family's favorite colors here.
I might have Rob and then another item of data or cell and then green and that would then fill the first
table row.
Let's just have a quick look and see at the moment that just looks like robe and green thing particularly
special then.
But then we can add another table right in the same way.
And then we could have Kirsten
and her favorite color orange.
Very cheerful.
So now you can see it spreads out everything nicely so everything's well aligned within the table.
So now I'm just going to copy and paste these so you didn't have to watch me typing them again but will
have told me his favorite color is somewhat in transition but at the moment it's still pink.
And then Ralphie who doesn't really know what his favorite color is but he's been assigned blame.
So there we go.
That's what our table looks like.
It's not much to look at but in the next section we'll see how we can change the style.
It's CSSA and get some really pretty well spaced out tables.
I'll just show you a couple of other things that we can do with tables.
The first is we can have a table head section and then in our table head we might have a table row again
and then here instead of having a standard bit of table data we have a table heading section so we might
have a name for the first column for example and then
favorite color to use in there.
Fantastic.
And then let's check that out and you can see that we've got a slightly different styling on the table
head cells there.
So they're bold and they're scented as well and we could obviously change that styling if we wanted
to if we didn't like the favorite color goes on for a bit too long.
We could add a line break in there and then it would again align everything nicely horizontally and
vertically for us.
Finally then if we're going to have a table head we should really separate the second part into a table
body.
Now this doesn't actually change anything in terms of the look but it makes our clothes code nice and
clear as to which part of the table is which you can see individually indenting all of those with most
text editors you can actually indent a whole chunk of code just by selecting it all and then pressing
tab and that then adds everything really nicely.
Excellent.
So you're now pretty familiar with HCM l tables in the next video.
We'll look at one of the original innovations that led to the web.
Really the thing that holds it all together and that is links.